[Music]
most of the things that we don't
understand we fear
approaching your fear allows us to go
places and understand things that we
wouldn't otherwise
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
all right Joe how are you doing today
I'm good I am
[Music]
I just got off of a houseboat for
Thanksgiving with my family for a week
and uh we go to a place where there's
there's nobody at all there's no cell
reception no anything and it was just so
nice to be reconnected as a family
and it was really interesting to watch
my girls you know at the beginning of
that holiday they were like I don't you
know they have fear they were like I
don't want to get away from
being out of connection as far as
Cellular Connection or Wi-Fi it was
there's definitely some resistance and
then by the end of it they were
ready to have another week where they
weren't connected to anything and we
could just be together as a family
unfortunately we couldn't do it but it
was really nice to see that transition
for them tell me about the fear that
they were the fear of losing connection
to Wi-Fi it seems like such a little
thing
um
but I don't think it is you know when
kids are growing up they're like
learning this whole social thing and to
be out of connection of their friends
the Wi-Fi it's like anything can happen
right somebody could start saying bad
things about them online they could
there could be these dramas that they
don't know about they're not informed
and then all these consequences can
happen
and I think my guess is that's a real
driving fear with for my girls anyways
about not being in connection
Cellular Connection not the connection
of the family but that Cellular
Connection was really important to them
because it's like it keeps them up to
date on the social
you know
the Mercurial social nature of teenage
girls I had some some sort of experience
with fear myself this past weekend I was
in Moab Utah in the canyons and I was
trying highlighting for my first time in
a couple of years since the first time I
tried it but anyway High lining is like
where you go between two massive Cliffs
kind of thing with like a like a slack
line is that what that is yeah I wrote
yeah it's like a one-inch slackline
uh anchored between two Cliffs about
like 500 feet over the the ground and
you you clip into it with a harness and
then slide out and then stand up and
walk the line and I've been doing a lot
of slacklining over the past couple of
years particularly over the pandemic
when I've just been in one place and
this is my first time trying to Highline
again and there's definitely a strong
fear that comes up when you're hanging
out on a line and you're putting your
feet on it and trying to stand and I
definitely immediately fell and took a
little whipper and uh the line caught me
and it was perfectly safe but definitely
wait wait wait wait what's a whipper a
whipper is when uh when you come off the
line in a rather uncontrolled and
extravagant way and take a nice big
swing around the line oh wow yeah it
feels like you're getting whipped around
yeah I'm just imagining it okay yeah
yeah the experience of getting kind of
whipped around and disoriented and in
that moment you're like how good is this
uh you know how good are these anchors
how good is my equipment did I double
back my harness
right right right right right yeah right
so that's another thing of fear right so
we that's interesting which is cool
because it because that's what we're
meant to talk about today which is like
fear and it's cool to think about like
those two different kinds of fear yeah
you've got the subtle fears that are
guiding so many small decisions in our
life and making us feel resistance to go
out into nature and have a connective
time with family because we're away from
Wi-Fi and then we have the more extreme
and present fears of physical
Annihilation even if it's not really
present even if you're actually
protected but the visceral feeling of it
and I think that's a really good analogy
or just some something to bring into the
ways that we feel fear all the time in
our in our business and in our life and
the way that we show up in the world
yeah yeah it's fascinating when you
think about it that way I think what it
brings is that question of like what is
fear essentially and I think that's an
incredibly difficult question to answer
you know the typical answer to that
question is you know if you feel in
threat if you feel your person
what you love care about is in threat
some version of that is like the typical
idea of fear but if you think of fear
that way then
you know you could Define anger that way
you could Define sadness that way
as far as the body goes if you define it
as the body it's a very different
experience right so the experience of
anger and the experience of fear are
very different
like like after fear you're gonna shake
during fear you're gonna scream your
facial expression is gonna have like big
eyes and an open mouth anger is gonna
have a closed mouth and tight eyes and
so if you define it
you know intellectually it kind of makes
it sound like fear is at the bottom of
all the anger and all the sadness and I
think there's an interesting truth to
that perspective but it's not a body
truth of anger I'm a fear excuse me
there's a definite ex felt experience of
fear in the body that is unique to all
the other
you know big emotions that we feel yeah
it sounds like any of the fight flight
freeze or feed or any other F's that
people have come up with to describe
various responses that are linked to
fear and the perspective of like that
there's only love or fear which yeah is
useful and not necessarily entirely true
it sounds like fear can have a lot of
different flavors and be identified as
other emotions and it can also be its
own distinct thing
you know just they can be the thing
that's underneath anger and it can also
be the thing that anger is underneath
that's right yes that's exactly it and
so I don't know the feed one so I've
heard of fight flight or freeze I use
that a lot what's the feed what does
that represent uh feed is just you know
there's a
uh let's say if I'm procrastinating and
I just go to the fridge frequently and
oh I might as well just put some more
calories in my body because maybe
that'll help with whatever this like
undetermined risk is that's another
thing that I think that it gets confused
a lot is like there's fear and then
there's anxiety and
they to me those are very separate
things right so
um and I don't think we could talk about
all of them in one podcast but I think
there's like fear as anxiety there's
fear as in power struggles and then
there's like the actual
um fears and like an emotional
experience that's happening I think that
we should do a different podcast on the
like fear and how that creates power
struggles and what I what some people
call the drama triangle I would call the
fear triangle and another discussion on
anxiety and what that is and and how
it's related but not related to fear
for me though fear the experience of
fear when we're
um in the body is uh like a a shaking
um
uh screaming a
um like a jittery sensation that's kind
of how we know fear to be there and when
we're in fear in the head what we know
is that we
um start thinking about binary or sharp
binary thinking it's either going to buy
the red car or the blue car but I don't
see that there's like a black car or a
green car he's like I either marry her I
don't marry her like that really tells
them that's the mental you know that
shows the mental that you're in or you
think don't take the job exactly yeah
yeah
or that there's like a false that often
fear creates this false end in the
system where it's like
oh my God I'm gonna lose my job but
you're not thinking and then what and
then you lose your job and then you find
a new job and then you are you know get
a two-month vacation while you look for
a job and then you you know go into
credit card debt and then you repay your
credit card debt like there's this false
end nature to having fear in the system
um it also it's all it also presents
when you think you have to make a
decision that's another thing that like
how fear shows up in the head so I think
fear in the the body is that shaking
screaming whereas fear in the head is
binary thinking false end and thinking
that you have to make a decision yeah
making maybe a list of pros and cons to
try to intellectually analyze it to to
the Max and come up with a confirmed
answer right if that's true if you're
doing that it means there's unfair fear
it means that like
like we all make a thousand decisions a
day right easily a thousand decisions a
day and
and we don't even think that we're
making them we don't even consider them
they just happen all the time
so it when we think we have to make a
decision it means that we're scared of a
consequence we're scared that we're
going to do something wrong and so the
first thing to do in those moments is to
address the fear not try to figure it
out because the brain doesn't figure out
fear it can't it's it doesn't do it very
well at all but the next most obvious
thing can be found so easily you know
it's I can't make the total decision but
I can definitely know what the next most
obvious thing is to do if all I do is
just feel the fear and let it move
through me so what makes fear take hold
and not just move through so cleanly as
you just described like all emotions
that there's like um
you know different societies have
different ways of handling it like
there's definitely societies that I've
been in or subcultures of our society
where like showing fear is not okay
if I show Fear then I'm gonna get
harassed by the cops or if I show Fear
then I'm gonna be on the bottom of the
totem pole like to show fear is not an
acceptable
experience if I show Fear dad will
attack me or Mom will attack me so like
all of the emotions actually letting
that fear move through your system
is going to
is going to create you know the
potential of harm for you and or some
history of harm for you
um and again like all emotions
um the mind then forgets that oh we can
actually Express the fear just not with
anybody around or when it's safe when we
know we won't be attacked for it so
um so that's one of the reasons that
fear doesn't move like incredibly uh
quick through us when it doesn't that's
one of the reasons the other is just
sustained like when you have a situation
where you're scared for a sustained
period of time the body just can't
handle it you you have to
you can deal with a certain amount of it
and act through that and feel that for a
certain amount of time but if you're
doing something like I remember when
um my girls were young
um both of them had life-threatening
diseases at different times and it was
like 10 days of sustained fear in a
hospital and it was like that took
months for me to move through because I
actually had to compartmentalize some of
that fear to make decisions I had to
operate it's the same with like war that
you know there's if you're in the
sustained trauma for an extended period
of time you have to go back and let your
body move it after the fact so that's
another reason that it's it's important
and
because fear was meant like historically
like for most mammals fear is meant for
a very short period of time it's like
um run from the lion it's not for like a
sustained thing and also for most
animals that the only thing that they're
really trying to protect is there and
the physical welfare of you know their
family so to speak the
that maybe the tribe or the or the
whatever the different words for
different animals but the group of
animals or the herd of animals that's
really the only time when that they're
feeling the fear whereas humans their
sense of self is far beyond just my
physical form it's what I stand for my
political nature my sexual orientation
my like how good of a person I am my
reputation how good I look blah blah
blah blah and so now that we have
extended ourselves into all of these
I would say illusionary things then our
fear can be more sustained over longer
periods of time
and so it takes more to just have it
move all the time or you have to see
through the idea of self you have to see
through what you're protecting
and then there's just a lot more less
fear in the system generally yeah so it
sounds like what you just said there's
that our fear we we can have a gradient
of fear all the way from the visceral
level of walking a high line and being
afraid for our personal well-being all
the way to something so abstract as if
I'm away from Cellular Connection
somebody might invite me to a party that
I miss and then I won't get the social
connection that I want and I'll have
fomo and or there's going to be a whole
bunch of people who say shitty things
about me and I won't be there to defend
myself and when I come home my social
rank will have lowered and I'm going to
be the person who's bullied
right which feels a little more real
than like I'm gonna miss a party but yes
all of that all of that is now part of
fear so anything that we anything that
we project our identity into now has to
be protected and so what's interesting
here is that it all still links right
back down to the body no matter how
abstract the thing you're afraid of it
connects straight to the body and
whether if you're if you're not aware of
it and you're not letting it move then
you'll find yourself in this binary
thinking being afraid of a false end
some consequence that it just seems like
it's the end of the world and that you
have this big weighty decision to make
and this these different streams of
information that if you if you could
only understand it fully you would know
what to do to keep yourself safe and if
not it's all lost the consequence piece
is really important too I love that
thought process so from the way I see
that is like when I'm coaching clients
what I see a lot of is
they want to be their authentic self
but they're scared of the consequences
of it
and then that's like that's when the
fear really takes hold when it's like
when that when that ratio gets out of
balance right and what I also see is
when people consistently show up and be
themselves despite the consequences then
what happens is
the part of the world that doesn't like
who they are Falls away maybe
dramatically maybe maybe violently but
it falls away and the part of the world
that supports who they are actually and
their authenticity shows up and it's not
magical thinking this isn't like new age
like I wish it and therefore it's so
it's just literally
the same way that if if there's
something that's feeding on insects
Creek is a good place to be to eat the
insects because there's more insects
near water than there is in dry spaces
so you're going to get more insect
eating animals near creeks
and it's just as simple as that it's
just like we go to the places and the
and and the things are attracted to us
depending on what we're what we're
delivering if we're a creek delivering
insects then we're gonna get insect
eaters around us so to speak yeah or if
we're someone who's
who is patterned into
experiencing a lot of interpersonal
drama will tend to find where there is
drama and try to fix it because we're
afraid of it and
draw ourselves into it even more and
create yeah exactly exactly trying to
fix it creates it yeah exactly perfect
example so
when it's so clear in your system that
the consequence is so much less
important than being yourself
then there's no fear that shows up
when you start worried about
you know that the consequence could stop
you from being or being yourself
then the fear really hits and and what
the the ridiculous thing about it is
then you're like okay I'm so scared that
if I do that I can't be myself then I
won't be myself right now right like
back to my daughters I'm so scared that
if I tell my friend that
the the way that she's treating me
really doesn't work because then I might
lose my Social Network and then I can't
be myself at school it's like really so
you're sacrificing being yourself now
for the fear of
not being able to be yourself in the
future which is almost always like I'm
scared it's the same thing like I'm
scared of losing all my money
I'm like okay so you're gonna not be
yourself now because you might lose all
your money so that it and so that that
way in the future
I I can be myself because I have the
money yeah I don't think so
it's a funny bargain that we make often
if everyone around us loves a certain
identity of us and we're afraid of
losing that identity well if if we can
accept losing that identity which will
happen if we step into our authenticity
rather than that image then we do that
self does die that's right and if we're
willing to go through the experience of
finding what we are underneath it and
finding our place and in our environment
and in our world then
then the fear Falls away because then
you can look forward to it what is this
journey I'm about to be on yeah that's
why I have this poem about this where I
talk about which is like fear is like
one of the most direct paths to Freedom
and it's because of exactly what you're
saying is that like it the fear tells
you where you're scared that your
identity is gonna be
taken away attacked your idea your idea
of self whether that's the physical self
or
the friends or the wealth or whatever
and there's this great quote that says
if you want to find out who you are
offer yourself up to Annihilation and
the part of you that can't be
annihilated is is who you actually are
and so fear is this incredible path it's
like this incredibly quick way to get to
freedom because you're just annihilating
all the parts of yourself it's it's
directly like oh I'm scared of that
means I'm scared of that level of
annihilation and then you can find what
is truly true about you which is the
part that can't be annihilated yeah and
on a visceral level that reminds me of
the by Journey in base jumping and just
how
going into jumping off of a cliff and
parachuting is something where it brings
up all these fears of visceral
Annihilation and those being in
constriction around those fears just
makes your performance far more
rigid and clunky and far more likely to
lead to your Annihilation than if you if
you simmer in it and sit in it and let
yourself feel all of that fear and let
yourself feel the the subsequent fears
of if if I die you know my partner will
have a bad day and my family will have a
bad day
but if you if you let yourself continue
to constrict in those fears then that's
going to be the thing that pops on your
mind if if something goes a little bit
off of the plan right also the flow
state that I think so many people who do
these kinds of sports look for
let's call that the freedom for a minute
is directly linked to allowing the fear
it's directly leads to the the Embrace
of the fear so if you're not embracing
it you're constricted if you are
embracing it if you're like oh yeah
there it is that's the fear I'm going to
fully allow this thing to be felt and
move through me then you're in Flow
State and it's the same thing in the
fear any of the other fears so that's
how fear is such a direct path this is
something that I experienced a lot and
saw a lot that if you if you let your
attachment to a certain identity cause
you to suppress a certain range of fear
then the the thing that that fear would
keep you safe from becomes more likely
to happen to you yes the things that we
fear are the things that we invite into
our world often the other thing that's
interesting is that like I remember
hearing like some Monk at some point
tell me I can't remember who it was he
was like I don't really feel fear
anymore
and that idea is so foreign to me
because
and I I don't know exactly what they
meant by fear so I can see a way in
which that may be true but
but what's what's foreign to me is that
like every time I embrace fear I find
that there's a new level of fear that
exists
that there's a more subtle form of fear
that exists there's like a
it's almost like if fear is the direct
path then to say that fear goes away
would kind of say that the path goes
away right and what I notice is that in
my own system there's just like a deeper
Embrace of the
the fragility or the um
the limitations of life
yeah I think that points to a common
misconception around fear is that it's
something to be overcome yeah that
courage is overcoming the fear and you
know one definition of courage is
feeling the fear and doing the thing
anyway I think even then Matt there's
still a little bit of a little bit of
like pushing through I think more like
courage is feeling the fear and then
doing what's authentic yeah it might
just be feeling that feeling the fear
and the rest happens yeah yeah
um yeah there's like
yeah fear is such a great signal and and
it tells us so much about our situation
like what part of life we're not
embracing what things that we're not
asking for that we need there's so many
aspects of fear that it and there's so
many levels of it
and it's beautiful and
there's a way of also defining fear
which creates like the power struggles
like fears power struggles or fears
anxiety
that are it's kind of a unique situation
because most of the time when those
things are happening people don't know
they're in fear
right so there's this level of fear
that's happening in the world that
people don't actually they can't they
can't see it they can't see that they're
in the fear when they're acting in those
ways
like any time I the way I see it any
time anybody's in a power struggle
they're scared right yeah they're scared
that their identity is going to be
destroyed how do we practice coming to a
practice of feeling and welcoming our
fear and
letting it move through us in a way that
allows us to accept all the consequences
to our Identity or to our physical self
or to those that we love
in order to
to engage with the world more fully and
more authentically yeah well the first
thing is to see that when you resist
fear it doesn't go anywhere it doesn't
stop it just kind of leaks out sideways
it like just doesn't come out of the
front of the toothpaste tube it comes
out of the side so that's one thing is
that like resistance doesn't work you
know that that which we resist persists
is a kind of common thing so that's one
way to to you know keep on trying to
resist it see what happens see how that
works for you
um see how big of a shield you have to
put up between you and life to be able
to resist fear I noticed that what you
just said there was not don't resist it
because that's another form of
resistance but correct feel it let's
feel what it's like to resist it see
feel where it gets you and then let your
let your system update and just
determine
experiment with new ways to relate to it
yeah that's right also loving fear
finding out the wisdom of fear learning
how to listen to it and then seeing how
much wisdom and Brilliance it has and
then allowing yourself to feel to feel
it is a natural thing once you once you
see how cool it is and how much it
informs you and how much Freedom it oh
my God I'm scared that means my decision
making sucks right now so I can feel my
fear and then my decision making can be
great
holy crap right like
that what what Freedom oh my gosh I'm in
fear right now that tells me that I I
have some needs that aren't being met
great like wow why would you not want to
have that signal that'd be like saying
no
you know like [__] this speedometer on
my dashboard [__] that I don't want that
speedometer there like it becomes
completely nonsensical when you see it
as that and then finally when you
embrace the fear deeply and you get that
flow state or you get that freedom
not just in the long term but in the
short term well then you're just like I
can't wait to find it I mean then you
then you then you do things like
and they put a one inch rope across 500
foot cliff and go and go walk in there
and you're like yeah great I can't you
know I can't wait so if you have that
felt experience of that of that full
Embrace of the fear
then you you feel the freedom of it and
you're like this is wonderful
and just to be and there's somebody
somewhere right now who's saying like
wait if I
if I embrace the fear that I'm inviting
danger you know like I'm not saying go
create fear I'm just saying and I'm not
saying that like don't listen to Fear
I'm saying listen to it and if the more
you feel it the better you can react to
it the better the natural reaction will
be to the fear yeah like that moment
that moment when you're with a colleague
and you have a piece of
difficult feedback and
you feel that fear you feel that
constriction looking for that looking
for where In My Life am I feeling fear
right now because those are the those
are the doorways to get out of whatever
pattern I'm in and into some beyond that
I have no idea where it's going to take
me and if I feel like I want to expand
in my life then wherever I feel some
subtle or or deeper fear those are
exactly where I need to go yeah that's
right yeah the places we don't go are
the places we're scared
or we don't know exists most of the
things that we don't understand we fear
approaching your fear allows us to go
places and understand things that we
wouldn't otherwise yeah so how do you
relate this to to helplessness which
we've we've talked about helplessness
before and it could even be sort of its
own feeling but it also seems like it
might just be describable as a as the
the state of allowing fear to move
through one thing I want to say before
that is that like in the connection
course we do the view thing which is
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder
um to some degree that also is like a
really neat response to fear
meaning that like it's really hard I
have an experiment up on the website I
think where
um we talk about how being in Wonder is
impossible if you're in fear right so in
in a kind of deep sense of fear and so
it's really interesting to feel like in
one way that you could you could say
what's what is fear and I would say it's
when you're not in view
it's another way to describe fear and so
how to approach it I would say approach
fear in view oh what how does this
really making me feel what am I really
scared of
that would be the vulnerability what
what what is
the impartiality is not trying to get
out of it
it's like okay well how long does it
want to be here what does it want to
tell me empathy is like being with it
not trying to avoid it and wonder is
like oh what is this all about like so
to me like you can approach the internal
states that you resist the same way that
you can just like difficult
conversations in the world you can
approach with you it's the same way so
that's another one as far as the
question that you had before on
helplessness
I would say helplessness is I would say
maybe the deepest form of fear that's
what I would say like
it is when you feel like there is
absolutely nothing that can be done that
you are without you know it's the thing
that when we're doing trauma work with
people they go into during rapes or
during car accidents or
um with a parent who just couldn't
wouldn't love them no matter what they
did like it's it is a feeling of
helplessness and
it is incredibly freeing emotion to feel
it's incredibly frame because just like
all the emotions when we feel sad we
actually come out with more joy if we
feel helplessness we we come out feeling
so much more
um potent so much more
um
viable so much more empowered right and
so so feeling that helplessness is is
like an amazing thing and it is it's
usually the deepest of Journeys right
and it's weird it's like there's this
weird little Nuance that happens when
people feel fear or helplessness is that
they're scared and therefore they
conflate being scared to feel the
feeling with the feeling itself like oh
my God I'm I'm scared
and I'm feeling the feeling so therefore
I must be scared of feeling the feeling
and so it's like one of the more
challenging
um feelings for people to experience is
my is what I've seen but it's it's one
of the most useful experiences to really
allow yourself to go into so a lot of
what we've just talked about has been
like ways to intellectually recognize if
you're feeling fear and then to kind of
go into feeling it and recognize
emotionally if you're if you're sensing
the fear and letting it move through and
I'm curious also if there's a purely
somatic or a visceral way to let fear
process and a pointer to this is that
you know some sometimes it like there
are there are practices that they use
with the veterans with PTSD where you
just lay down on a bed and you just
start letting your limbs shake a little
bit and like that's a way to burn off
here what's the visceral process of of
feeling and burning off fear and what
are some tools that can help somebody
get into that or that they could further
explore what's really good is to have a
place with a whole bunch of people who
love you and can support you in the
process
so part of fear often is that I'm alone
in it and so to see that you're not
alone and is incredibly useful yes
shaking your body like just allowing
your body to shake is an amazing thing
or even
putting your body into a position where
it shakes is also can be very useful you
can go into memories that created a lot
of fear and relive the physical
experience of it there's certain breath
work that opens up fear that can be done
that's another one too hard to explain
right now
there's also there's some benefit to
this as well which is just literally
allowing the fear in your body without
reacting to it just like observing the
fear I think there's some
as long as you don't do that to create
separation you do it to create intimacy
with the fear is another incredibly
useful tool so all of those can be
really useful I like I will lay down and
shake and and during helplessness I will
make the sounds of helplessness which is
screaming and or really tight feelings
like that tight emotion you know or not
being able to say anything sometimes is
helplessness it's like you feel stuck in
it
and so yeah all of that is really really
useful yeah in case this sounds crazy to
anybody listening yeah it does it's a
natural reaction when when you see an
animal who goes into freeze because
there's a predator around before they
get up and move again they will get up
and shake and that literally releases
and burns off some of the chemicals and
the
the energy that was stored in those
muscles to keep them Frozen or whichever
form of
fight flight you might have been in it's
so obvious even in dogs like if you just
look at dogs like they Shake all the
time
and we think like oh there's this thing
called fear and this is where now we
have to shake and like we're gonna shake
two times a week and like and you watch
a dog they shake like 20 times a day 30
times a day easily not for a long period
of time but they shake and and dogs that
are more anxious Shake more they they
and they you know they put out their
legs and then they like start with their
head and then their whole body shakes it
releases their muscles it's amazing to
watch all all animals do this
and the fear does compile like that
every day yeah it'll just stack up until
it moves and it'll either show up in a
deep subconscious way that makes you
recreate the thing and then you feel it
all at once when the thing you're afraid
of happens yeah or you can just let it
through a little bit a day or in real
time it's close to real time as you can
get to that's right yeah and so
something I want to touch on before we
close uh for anybody who's just
listening to this and wants to
experiment with feeling Their Fear
what's a good way to to notice the
difference between feeling fear and
letting it move through and then getting
into a story about it that just deepens
it because I'm imagining somebody who
might be alone feel alone in it and then
go off alone and start shaking and then
reify the story that they are alone and
that nobody loves them and find more
truth in it than than letting the fear
just process
what advice do you have for that so that
that would be a good episode on anxiety
because
like I'd like to do an episode on the
power I'd like to do an episode on the
anxiety because what you're describing
is someone who's not feeling the fear
um so maybe they Shake but they're not
actually allowing it and so that story
this is the part that we've talked about
the one thing is you process your fear
the other thing is your sense of self
becomes
um so expansive or so
the veil is seen through that there's
nothing like you're the part of you that
can be annihilated is like we I know I
can't be annihilated the part of me
that's actually me and all the other
parts they're not me so what what is
there to protect
you know I asked this question to people
all the time where they're like
defending themselves and I'm like what
are you actually defending and nobody
can really answer that question
it's this this idea of self
and so so to me I think it's really
spending time there and the way you
spend time there is to see what stories
you're telling yourself nobody loves me
is a story that and that's your
definition your definition is I am the
kind of person that nobody loves I am
the kind of person who needs to be like
I'm the kind of person who has money
these are these stories of ourselves are
the things that we're defending and so
to some degree
that might be necessary to start the
fear process but if you're in the story
through the fear process then it's not
moving well I think one of the ways to
tell if you're moving through the fear
is that your stories will be dissolved
by it and you'll you might be in a news
story a larger story a different story
but the
any any in this this works for pretty
much any emotion if there's a story and
an emotion moves through it
it will change the story if you're
moving it that's right
that's right the story will change there
will be relief
and there eventually will be long-term
relief if you if you're moving it if
you're not moving it if you're indulging
it if you're defining yourself I don't
even like to use the word indulge if
you're defining Yourself by that story
then the story and the emotion and
therefore it's not moving the story will
remain the same there won't be a sense
of short-term and definitely no
long-term relief
and you'll still feel that stuck
relationship with the feeling meaning
you won't be like I can't wait to feel
fear again
you're like I'm gonna feel this fear to
get rid of it if you're feeling the fear
to get rid of it then it's not gonna
work so that's those are the ways yeah
yeah cool this has been an awesome
episode I really enjoyed it yeah me too
me too
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment
who enjoyed what you heard today please
subscribe and rate US on your podcast
app we'd love your feedback so feel free
to send us questions or comments you can
reach out to us join our newsletter or
check out our courses at Art of
accomplishment.com
foreign